---
creation date: 2025-12-19 10:31
tags:
  - linkedin
  - linkedin/projectsAndExecution
dg-publish: true
---
In the group project for 5308 course, I learnt full development lifecycle, from architecture and implementation to testing and deployment. 

At the start there was some group reshuffling and I ended up with a project idea that didn't align with my interests but was however a great hands-on learning experience.

One major decision in the beginning was choosing front end and backend technologies. Although I have experience in iOS development, most of the group didn't, so we decided to move forward with React Native which was new for me. For the backend we chose Node.js but after two weeks switched to Python based Flask backend which was a major setback for us, but became an important milestone. I learned how to design and implement REST endpoints in flask and integrate them with frontend. 

A central theme of the project was Test-driven-development (TDD), and after some struggle I began to actually like it. I will be honest, I didn't write any single test case in my personal projects before this project. As the codebase grew I began to appreciate it more and more and the peace of mind it offers. It completely changed how I see software reliability and confidence in refactoring.

To streamline the backend iterations, I wrote an automation script for database migrations. It meant when if we had to add another column to a table or other schema changes, it took 20% of the time. That deepened my understanding of automated dev-workflows and Data-model versioning.  

Another important takeaway was learning to use user stories and using GitLab Issues as a documentation and accountability tool. What felt like a chore initially soon proved invaluable in maintaining context, continuity and accountability, especially when switching between multiple projects from different courses daily. 

I already enjoyed commits as a documentation tool in my personal projects, from now on Issues will also become my go to tool for documentation. 

I also implemented our CI/CD pipeline for the first time. Deployment had alway felt like a "black box" before, but seeing it in action from git commits to live environment built a better picture of DevOps practices in my mind. 

With the amount of independence I got all the decisions I had to make taught me a lot of technical and productivity concepts. 

I can keep writing about them but in short:
- End-to-end full-stack application development
- Frontend–backend integration challenges  
- Database modelling and version migration automation
- CI/CD pipelines and deployment workflows
- Test-Driven Development and continuous integration
- Code quality practices (code smell detection, SOLID principles, design patterns)
- Authentication and authorisation using [[(pointer) JSON Web Tokens (JWT)]]
- Rational use of automation and trade-offs in development decisions 

Building applications is different but, building with maintainability, team collaboration, scalability and continuous client feedback in context is a whole different game. 