---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
#

Its normal to break the habit of meditation like any other habit. It is also normal to break it a thousand times! 

In my experience, the first meditation session after breaking the habit streak for a few days was really one of the most relaxing which took me to a whole new place and time.

But as the habit streak grows the law of diminishing returns comes into play as they all say. The more regular you are you will stop feeling that magical feeling every time because you were feeling that exactly yesterday.

I did not believe I was alone in this so I did some investigation and found many people feeling the same way.

The reason I found by some profound spiritual commentary. When we create a habit of meditation regularly, instinctively this feeling arises, that "I am a Meditator".

This seems to be the root cause of this whole problem. But, why?

There shouldn't be anything wrong with feeling that we have done so and so many hours of meditation, right?

As soon as we label ourselves "Meditators", we stop the flow of energy from the universe through us, through our minds and bodies. 

What we chose to accomplish through our practice, our identity of a "meditator" has put a roadblock in front of our goal.

When we stop practicing for a while, our ego gets shattered and our identity crumbles into despair. With that surrender, with that despair we start feeling that flow of calmness and peace again from the universal intelligence.

That spiritual commentary was about devotion and _bhakti_. This meditation practice should be a devotional practice not like building muscles for the ego to feel larger or stronger.

When we shift our consciousness from this false identity of a "meditator" to "No one" our practice becomes much more stronger much much more powerful. 

Universe is calling everyone to meditate and love itself. That's how all of us stumble upon some form of mindfulness practice. Seeing all our meditative efforts in this light of "receiving a gift" is the right approach.

This way ego doesn't get what it wants - validation. It starves without it. The most historic saints and lovers of God, proclaim that they are nothing without the power and love of God. 

This shift is necessary to build a cosmic relationship with the divine. And through only this our efforts can be fruitful into years, probably decades of powerful practice. 

As I have mentioned earlier, my most powerful and memorable sessions were not when I was completely absorbed in the infinity, but the ones when I was not even able to sit in a meditative posture for 1 minute and just laid down on my mat.

With despair and heart full of sorrow I just cried to the infinite, to the universe to accept me, to let me feel that infinite love which is my birthright. 

No answer came but I always felt calm and ready to face the world after that. Although later I realised, what more answer could be more powerful that this.

Even in the face of defeat if the universe gave me the strength to carry my burden with a smile on my face, where is the despair?

But these realisations came after a long time of getting broken and getting healed back up. Through heat and cold only, can the most strongest of steels and glass be forged. 

We have to endure the ups and downs with a smile on our faces. Never giving up on the universe's merciful nature. Forgetting our transgressions we have to move ahead one step at a time until we get that immovable faith planted right in our heart. 

It is only by realising our pitiful condition, by realising our helpless state can we be open for the divine mercy, for the divine intervention.

If you are also struggling to maintain a daily meditation practice, I would like to invite you to try this one thing. 

Never meditate with the help of your own strength, when you sit on that mat always remember the universe is trying to give you this gift, all we have to do is accept it open (and empty) hands. 

If our hands are full with "My strength", "My identity of a pro-meditator" we will inevitably witness our downfall.

But, with open-ness and empty heart every session will be the most moving experience of your lives. 

May you be blessed with divine mercy! Peace! 

