---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
# Meditate, Live Now

If we concentrate all our energy to this moment, there is nothing more special for us. There are no more to-dos, no more duties and responsibilities if we take a moment for this very moment. 

The beauty of this cannot be described in words because of its transcendental nature. That feeling is beyond language, beyond time or any dimension of space. 

No, its not about forgetting about everything and an excuse to become lazy. Concentration makes everything worthwhile. Remember when we used to study for a test in school? We forgot everything else without trying to "give up" our desires and wants.

### Meditation teaches us how to live in perfect harmony outside with that bubbling joy on the inside. 

*Ok, here's a question? How much gratitude should I feel right now?* 

The correct answer is, no matter how much you feel its not enough! We don't appreciate all the little things that we have, instead if we could feel that every breath we take is a gift from the universe how can we thank enough for that.

Meditation takes our default mode of thinking and transforms it to a place where all our worries and anxieties can just melt away into oblivion. All our little pleasures fall away too. What remains is the truth of "I am!".

Ask any 40 year old, no matter where they are in life, they will tell "life is really hard" (If they don't say it, they have been  feeling it right now). Why have we made this gift of conscious life a burden on ourselves? Why have we forgotten our true nature whose fundamental nature is bliss and joy.

### Meditation brings us back to our true nature. 

Not by some magical smoke, but by clearing our delusion and ignorance of our fundamental truth. 

---
Let me be clear, meditation is not just sitting in silence. Outwardly it might look like it but inside, it is far from silence and just stillness. 

With concentration of the mind on the universe, universal intelligence and with the heart flowing toward the merciful river of that universal love our whole being becomes overwhelmed with positivity and spiritual vibrations. 

With that consciousness we can do anything in this world. There are spiritual texts like _Bhagavada Gita_ that proclaims that even war can be fought with the whole consciousness absorbed in the universe or the Infinite. 

### This world is of dual nature. 

Somethings give us pleasure and some pain. Some events give us happiness and others loss and misery. Then why have we been trying to find a place here which will solve all our problems and make us feel "Whole and meaningful". 

By definition this whole world will cause us pain and suffering, even with the most luxurious of lifestyles the constant grind of ups and downs, pleasure and pain is just too much for the soul to endure.

*Meditation removes the root cause of this alternating consciousness of gain and loss, pain and pleasure.*

Where does all this suffering go when we meditate? Reasonable question, but its like asking a blind man who suddenly starts seeing where did your darkness go. 

We all can benefit from the practice of meditation and I do not say this from a curious half-hearted way, I am saying that out of compassion for my younger, stupider clueless self. 10 years of meditation has changed me in a way nothing can.

Its wonderful how freely the universe blesses us like a mother without asking much from us, it merely asks of us to come empty handed and just fill ourselves.

