---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
#

The universe called you on this path, so, now what?

Everyone on the spiritual path knows that they stumbled upon something that was hiding in plain sight. But through some magical force they started to see it.

The wisdom, the knowledge associated with spirituality was always there but we were blind to it. How many of us start meeting and seeing the followers of this path suddenly after they themselves have started to walk on this. 

Its the divine plan for every being that we get to our rightful throne of bliss and joy in this very life.

Now, what should we do? Simple answer is, the same universal consciousness that pulled us out of materialism will show us the rest of the way. We just have to follow the illumination on this path. 

The only way we can stray from this path is by taking all the credit for any amount of progress. The moment we do that the illumination by the universe disappears from our vision. 

We become blind again, just like our old self.

Just like travelling on a train we can put all our baggage on the train as well. On the divine spiritual path we don't need to carry all the weight of decision-making on our shoulders. We just have to sit by the window and enjoy the scenic beauty. 

So I just sleep on my bed and never leave my house?

No. All the daily duties and responsibilities are also being illumined by the universe, then why ignore that and only select what we like. 

We cannot move on the spiritual path by ignoring our daily duties of a husband/wife, parent/child or financial responsibilities. The universe knows us inside out and it gave us just the things that would be beneficial for our spiritual progress nothing more, nothing less. 

We have to trust in the universal plan! It is a spiritual saying in India, the moment we think of walking on the path of God, He  takes all our responsibilities on himself. Everything that happens from then on in our entire lives will have been "Approved" by that higher power, and will be for our own development on this path. 

---
