---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
# Centred in the Divine: The Antidote to Suffering

We all are here to realise one simple truth. To end all the suffering and realise our true blissful and divine nature. No one can be free from any suffering or feel a second of happiness unless the lord's name is on the tongue and heart is devoted to the [[Divine Mother]]. Outer activities do not matter a lot. We might be a good person feeding the poor, our family, nice neighbours and yet we will suffer from extreme unhappiness.

---
The love for God is the only antidote for unhappiness and suffering all around the world and in our hearts. 

Gist of the [[Bhagavad Gita]] is to realise that God is everywhere and the devotee should do all the duties of the body while being centred in this truth. 

---
When we are against our enemies and we have to fight for our own right, Krishna never said to feel the anger and destroy the enemies, he said to leave all the [[Dharma]] and to centre oneself in the divine consciousness. With love of God inside if the duty calls we will kill other people who are trying to harm us. The soldiers duty is to kill the terrorist but its not his duty to feel that hatred inside.

With the love of the lord inside all the duties can be performed perfectly, however one gets entangled in the duties and the emotions of all this drama that they become the doer and start to feel that anger, anxiety and restlessness associated with the role given to them by Lord. 

---
