---
share_link: https://share.note.sx/y9axn53y#n9imoMJLTmK1IpHk16RIjaLskwpBji9+Zqvn1QD5mzE
share_updated: 2025-08-26T09:20:36+05:30
dg-publish: true
---
Good Morning Tauji, Chachaji and Buaji,

I am writing this essay not to convince of anything or change the course of events. This is my just my way of processing the feelings that I have been feeling recently. 

As you all know that there has been a recent development regarding the sale of this home. The place where I grew up. Growing up here has never felt great. There is too much buried in these walls that cause agony and angst. Feeling trapped in one's own "Home" is a very difficult experience, at least it was for me. 

Let's start with me, I have never been a good son, brother, even a friend, neither interested in people of this world, nor the things of this universe. I just always wanted "something else", hence all the flights away from this "Home".

Papa's passing, to be honest, did not have any deep emotional impact on myself. The food still tastes the same and for a person who have stared at death their whole life, it was a normal part of our whole story. My death will be forgotten just like my father's and his father's and his father before that. That's what I already knew.

I know most of you, my cousins, even my mother and sisters look down on me for being irresponsible, for creating so much chaos in this home. Whenever I tried to run away from home, all I wanted was to find peace, a tiny speck of satisfaction and GOD. All through this I saw the eyes that looked at me with trust change into disgust and anger. Those eyes include my father, mother and everyone around. This made me even more determined to pursue this goal of what I was trying to achieve, because if "Success" and money are the qualities needed to be loved, then "Love" was never there in the first place.

I saw my Father from being a proud businessman/provider of a family to a man who felt ashamed to call me his son. 

Now, that he is gone would I have done everything differently? I feel no, I believe in Karma, I believe in afterlife and dharma now.

I know that all of you hate my mother for all the things she said to you, for all the times she disrespected you all, and I understand that, I saw many instances myself. 

Is she a good person ? No. I don't think so. 
Am I a good person ? Definitely No! I think we can all agree on that one haha.

In this situation, when this family home is being sold and torn down for some new shiny building, I never felt anything really. Since I never felt like home here then why should it bother me now. But recent discussions with Tauji and Chachaji has created some confusion in my mind and heart.

Now this is what I am totally ashamed about saying, and I never thought of being such a position. When the whole discussion of sale started, I was under the impression that there would be two partitions, one for Mummy and one for Tauji. How I arrived at this understanding feels kind of fuzzy but let me try to explain. 

- Avinash has said countless times to sell this house and in all those discussions he mentioned only two parties.
- Tauji when first initiating this conversation said about two partitions. But that changed after a while I don't know the reason why.
- Buaji has said in front of everyone I think twice or thrice that she will not take part of this home.
- Chachaji has mentioned to me personally in a phone after papa's death that he would not take anything because he has everything there and his life is in US.
- Mummy gave up her right in her father's home.
- Fact that Papa and Tauji are the one's who spent their whole lives here.

After starting the conversation of partition, Tauji slowly changed the tone of the conversation and has been quite forceful now about 4 equal partitions. 

I had zero opinion on this matter and told mummy to just sign and get on with it. Mummy wanted to clarify with Chachaji if that is what they wanted and suddenly she agreed which was shocking to me because she has always been shouting about how much Papa has given to this home. 

---

But 2025-08-25 yesterday, one thing that struck me when Tauji said to me, **"If papa was alive there would have been two partitions"**. 

I did not understand at first but it did not sit well with me. I had a restless last night and a fierce anger in my chest today morning. I did not understand it first why is this happening? 

Why am I feeling something about home partition? Throughout my life I have been idolising monks who give up this very thirst of money and fame. Then why now am I feeling this that I am being wronged? Do I still have attachment for money, fame and things of this world, the very things that I always tried to stay away from?

The answer came slowly but clearly. No I do not feel attachment at all. The feeling that I am getting is about "Justice".

Is it just to punish Mummy for being a bad person? Yes. Bad behaviour warrants bad behaviour. **But is it just take away her husband's right/share just because he is not breathing anymore?**

After thinking deeply that is the question I have found that's causing these feeling inside me. 

---

I do not feel that this the right thing to do to punish a person by taking away what's rightfully her husbands and that too by his own brothers and sisters. 

I understand that lawfully all four children have equal rights to the family property but that does not change the "unsaid understanding" that our culture dictates.

*If my father was alive my mother would get 50% of this home and if not she would get 25%.* This doesn't sit well with me. This is where I cross the line.

---
You four are our elders and what you decide is what will be done, now since mummy is also agreeing I don't see the point of changing anything. 

But, I only talk for myself when I say that, I refuse to call this justice. And I refuse to sit on a table with you three present.

I will sign wherever needed, but I refuse to call this move "Right" or "Just". 

I refuse to be a part of any conversation with you three other than about partition documents or the logistics.

---

I hope you understand and respect my position.