---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
#

The path to liberation are many. The easiest is the one of surrender. 

Through surrender, there are no worries for the individual. It is a spiritual-legal transfer of all the assets back to the universe. 

We already know that everything our own body was not of our own doing. Everything belongs to that source of truth. When we realise this and in principle sign this deed of transfer we seal our fate to liberation.

We don't have to worry about the past because that was supposed to happen. Why be fearful of the future? One that will happen which is supposed to happen. And the present? well, whatever is being done is being done by the universe through me.

Why fear? Why feel doubtful? Why feel misery or dread? Whatever is has been acknowledged and surrendered to the rightful owner, we are just its puppet.

The universe, cosmos only demands one thing. Actually two things. One is the constant remembrance and the second is doing our duties what the universe gave us. So, I am a mother, wonderful, I will constantly remember cosmos and do my motherly duties to the best of "*my abilities*"(the qualities given by the same cosmos).

The lotus symbolises a perfect analogy. Growing in water it is never touched by the water. 

Living in the world doesn't have to make us worldly. We all are cosmic beings children of the One. 

We have forgotten the million-fold joy and bliss in our cosmic bank account. Instead we run after the impermanency of the worldly bank account which is not truly ours and will never make us happy(not even for a millionth of a second). 

We have truly and completely lost our way. We were here to fulfil our ultimate duty of realising the truth. 

Surrender is that realisation. The truth doesn't need our permission to be true. But for living the truth we have to accept it in this life, otherwise all we have is chaos and suffering. 

What needs to be surrendered? Everything. The body, its actions, the mind and its actions, the heart and its feelings.

Ok, I have surrendered everything to the Divine. Now I should not feel any greed, anger - why am I still feeling all these negative emotions? 

Reasonable question right? No. After signing the house or car to someone else, do we worry about the electricity in the house? Do we worry about the torn seats of the car? No, its just imagined fear, or we have not "Truly surrendered" what was supposed to be surrendered.

With the surrender of everything, the worry of everything is also surrendered. With the worry of surrender even the memory of surrender is also surrendered. 

The universe absorbs everything- it will assimilate everything we give it to him. 

When not even a shred of ownership remains, that marks the beginning of the true surrender. 

---
In principle, before we could think this thought of surrender, the universe already chose us. Then there's no point in doubting our own surrender. 

The beginning and process of surrender is already being directed by the Cosmic Director. Then why as actors do we spend our time worrying if we are acting right or wrong. Whatever comes, whatever happens, we will remember the source and do what it makes us do. 

There are many paths to liberation and are filled with numerous and philosophies so profound our heads might explode. 

The path of surrender is the highest and the most simple and yet very difficult- because doesn't like giving up control. The ego doesn't like giving up everything to someone you are living with, why would easily give up everything to the Cosmic One. 

Yet, I don't know a simpler path, otherwise I would have written about it. 