---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
# Refining the Self Without Judging the Other

Ok, So I've been getting these lessons from everywhere how to be a better and more loving husband and now it has been very hard to ignore them. 

I've been told by my [[Divine Mother]] that it could help me to be more kind and forgiving for a start. I noticed that around her I tend to be a better person like a person who wants to set an example for oneself. I behave like my ideal self when I'm around her. But it turns out that sometimes causes judgement on her actions and disposition in some scenarios. That goes without saying that living a life like your ideal is an amazing thing, yet it does not have to be at the cost of the self-respect and heart of others. We could be willing to sacrifice a lot for our own growth, but does that sacrifice make us bitter towards our loved ones who are either ignorant of such actions or just not capable to do so at the moment. 

To counter such issues we have to mold these ideals; these ideals of the highest order have to also include a loving kindness towards others who are not up for the sacrifices and disciplines imposed by the ideal on the self. 

---
One more really interesting lesson I got via [[Jordan Peterson]], was to encourage every little good thing that you see your partner doing. I think [[Inbox/QuickNotes/Suman]] does this very well and is completely not afraid to do so. She tells me when she likes what I have done. Its interesting yet very easy lose sight of if you are not vigilant enough. 

Its very hard to notice little good things in others if we are just consumed by our own growth; this obsession with the self-growth and self-discipline does not have to be caustic and judgemental of others. It must be inclusive and kind to everyone otherwise the whole value proposition falls flat on the surface like a house of cards.

---