---
dg-publish: true
---

#inbox/fleetingNotes/Dailies 
#

The cost of not acting now cannot be overlooked in any decision making process. If a decision to do something is delayed, won't it make the current decision making system redundant since we will have new information in such time?

The time and energy invested in making a decision is high. However, if out of fear or anxiety we postpone taking the decision then all that energy spent will be wasted. Because next time we rework on that same dilemma we have to start from scratch with the new information. 

In life we all move from one decision to another with remarkable unconsciousness, like we are driving with both eyes closed just "feeling our way" all through the road. 

What gives us the right to think that we will reach a better place this time? We will make the same decisions every time, every single day unless we "choose" to open our eyes.

Every good habit, like exercising, learning something useful is a very small change that we made yet a difficult and powerful one. It changes us completely and transforms us to the core.

Spirituality is the most fundamental form of self-improvement. Good habits are like small nudges in the flow of events of our life, but with spirituality it is like we discover a completely novel axis or dimension of travel. 

Meditation is like a cheat code you put in a game and gain superpowers. 

When I was little I was obsessed with improving myself. When I read an article in some newspaper about "If we brush our teeth with less dominant hand that might increase our grey matter in the brain."

And, I did it! Every single day since that day I tried to brush my teeth with left and sometimes right hand. It has now become normal for me and I just use any hand. I don't know about my brain but my obsession was the fuel that was pushing to achieve some form of perfection in my life. 

I tried to study people from a distance, the people I idolised, the friends who I admired, trying to find out their habits deconstructing them to take out parts that I can use myself.

It is definitely some form of self-created hell. This whole concept of self-improvement is based on the simple thesis that "I am not complete, I am not good", but hopefully also on "Yes I am not there yet, but I can". 

What differentiates people who have found their place in the world is that immediacy of decision making to better themselves. The constant thirst of improvement.

All of this is to say, that slowly I found myself reading about meditation, yoga and other spiritual texts. Now I never considered myself a religious person, nor I had a very strong opinion on idol worship which is common in every Indian household. 

But this meditation thing got me hooked. Before going to school I used to have some time after getting ready and wait for my sister to get ready, in that time I acted as if I was asleep and inside I used to meditate. My earliest meditation practice was of "Light Ball" where I just imagined a light orb in my brain, then slowly moving it across my body from head to toe, giving me energy and peace. I did not feel the need to tell anybody because I thought everyone must be doing it, or I thought "It was obvious to do so".

Life kept going and I had an on and off relationship with meditation, but right after I had marked all the checkboxes of what was expected of me, to complete studies and get a good job, I suddenly felt the need for meditation. 

Like a hidden habit deep inside, it emerged with a violent aggression. Everything around me felt miserable, ultimately useless, all I could witness was sadness and despair in everyone's face.

Fortunately I went to that cave inside me. That inner temple of silence took care of me, nurtured me, loved me like none had loved me and most importantly accepted me as I was. I could stop improving now. This is the finish line. 

Ten years have passed since then. All I am, all I have, I owe it to that invitation to come back inside. Now that same universal force is inviting me to share what it taught me, to the world. 

We can't outrun the universe, nor its wisdom and its knowledge but we can try to ignore it but sooner or later it will catch up with us. Let's all go back to that temple deep inside us. 

